---
layout: post
title: "CRY IIT"
categories: articles
excerpt: Way back in the 1970s, Rippan Kapur, a young airline purser, was driven by an extraordinary dream.
image: 
  feature: cry.jpg
date: 2016-08-15
---

***CRY IIT***

Way back in the 1970s, Rippan Kapur, a young airline purser, was driven
by an extraordinary dream. His vision was to see a day when no Indian
child would be deprived of rights as basic as survival, participation,
protection and development. Like many of us, Rippan too was upset when
he saw disparities between privileged and underprivileged children. He
hated to see children begging and working as servants. Unlike most of us
though, he did something about it.

In 1979, seven friends made a simple decision to change the lives of
India's underprivileged children and CRY was initialized. At its
beginning being funded by a sum of 50 rupees and one dining table as the
only asset, its current revenue stands at 36 crores. CRY opts to defend
the rights of unprivileged children. It works to make the globe a
comparatively safer place for children to dwell in. CRY approaches a
problem through a three-phase engagement:

-   First, CRY chooses to work in areas where the human development
    indicators are the worst in the country – seeking out the most
    marginalized communities and their children.

-   It examines the situation of the children in these communities in a
    holistic manner, covering the entire gamut of issues that
    affect them.

-   CRY then seeks to understand the root causes of the deprivation
    faced by children in education.

-   Finally, CRY and its partners mobilize the local community to find
    long-term solutions to these root causes by making sure that the
    laws and policies that guarantee their rights are
    actually implemented.

CRY’s immense success is product of its flawless tactics and business
strategies adopted by its members for its functioning.

“The learning over the 27 years that CRY has been in existence that the
only sustainable change you can make is where you can -- 1. Have
policies that are genuinely child-friendly and 2. That you can ensure
that communities are mobilized to ensure that those policies are
implemented.

Private philanthropy alone is not going to address the root causes of
the problems. And it is certainly not going to be able to do it on the
kind of scale that India's children need.”

-   Raijain Mandarica (One of the key members of the group.)

CRY has a clear vision for the welfare of children. “We can either make
our children safe in the world, or why not make world safer for them.”
This idea lit the minds of its initiators and has been its motive since.
CRY has also initiated a motive to acquire its financial needs from
abroad and hence also works as a self-funded organization too.

***CRY IIT ROORKEE CHAPTER***

CRY IIT Roorkee was rooted in April 2K-12 and since then it has been one
of the most active sites of its work. This group volunteers for
development of neighbouring areas and participates actively in both in
and off campus projects. Working in parallel with NSS at IIT-R, CRY is
also involved in various clothes collection drives and routinely
arranges various competitions to encourage their cultural creativity.

***CRY IIT Kharagpur***

A CRY IIT-KGP CHAPTER was introduced in 2K-10 by some of its students
who were willing to do something for the social cause beyond their
engineering. They promoted their work by organizing ‘Dan Utsav’ (The
festival of giving away.)

***CRY ISM-DHANBAD***

Its arrival at ISM-DHANBAD has marked the beginning of protests to
convert it into an IIT.

On concluding lines we wish this evergreen NGO to prosper more and thus
help protecting rights of underprivileged children and making the dreams
of its founder (Late Mr. R. Kapur ) come true.
