---
layout: post
title: "Let’s Discuss Future"
categories: articles
excerpt: I would like to start with a story I came across few days back about a possible future event, or perhaps my imagination.
author: yash
image: 
  feature: future-talk.jpg
date: 2016-08-28T22:40:00+05:30
---

I would like to start with a story I came across few days back about a possible future event, or perhaps my imagination. It’s about year 2144, what’s the need of being so precise about the date in our hazy future? Not at all! But I required one at least. Being taught to always have faith in the divine force that unites all beings, I wanted one character in the story to reflect this divine force, let’s call him the Great Artist. At the beginning of life the Great Artist as I said created all life forms on earth differentiated and varied with possibilities. But amongst all his makings the only masterpiece he had was man. Man surprised him when he suddenly got up on two limbs and started to use his extra limbs to eat, cook, and create shelter for himself. Overjoyed with the feats of his finest creation and its abilities the Great Artist wished to see more.


Although with modest stems and a humble start each one this species had a zest to learn and progress. They no more reflected the untamed behaviour of the wild, but instead lived in formations and groups.They developed compassion for their fellows and passed their knowledge as legacies to their children.Not very long after this the Great Artist noticed that there was one thing man couldn’t control himself for and that was his vigour for advancing ahead in life. No matter how much the Great Artist provided him he wasn’t satisfied , rather made himself feel granted towards them owing to his intelligence. Soon the man found out that he was still imperfect with his wishes and his creator didn’t gave him abilities he wished to possess, thus came the machines. Beginning from the very modest bullock cart wheels they progressed and soon became an integrated part man’s life. Machines gave rise to industrial revolution and soon became an inseparable part of human’s life, nearing to 21st century man had inherited enough complex and developed machines from his ancestors whom in turn from their own, that the continuous interaction between him and machines no longer seemed alien to him. Uproar of these artificial machines didn’t please the Great Artist, his mind was in turmoil, he probably didn’t like the prayers emailed to him or online enchantings played during poojas. Over the period of time it occurred to him that a change was required things had already reached the bitter end. Man, although calling him an intelligent being, had made the stupidest of mistakes that threatened the survival of not only his but the entire existence of all living beings on the planet. Overpopulation created scarcity of resources and the economic crisis led towards highly biased distribution of these resources, a recent survey I stumbled upon displayed this on more statistical terms that the richest 10% of the world’s population earned 9.6 times the total income of poorest 10%. But we are in 2144 right! Things have more drastic consequences by now and the Great Artist deprived of all ways finally took matter into his hands to stop his best creation annhilating all life forms on the planet. With the most regretting emotions and tearful eyes, with compassion turned into worries and then into anger he finally decided to wage against humans and their artificiality which promised futile happy endings and various environmental rehabilitation techniques. Enough of the warnings he said, if they were wise they would have stopped , and now he began eradication of this so called (self-proclaimed) intelligent species all alike, he killed all the renowned and destitute alike. No differences did he notice in their deaths all starved, all drowned, all wanted to live.


But the question remained was why did he create us at the first place now if he didn’t wanted us to grow, well said he might say but at the end creators when turned devilish by coercing won’t stop to answer you. Well perhaps this curiosity in humans and their ability to question existent things and the way they were or their willingness to conclude everything with logic resulted in their extinction by the hands of those who created them. 
Now let the peace prevail.